gaza's Hamas run Health Ministry says
more than 4,000 Palestinians have been
killed and 13,000 wounded in Israeli
strikes Israel has continued it shelling
of the territory including the South
where it had previously told gazin to go
for their own safety Hamas has also
fired Rockets into Israel as
Palestinians wait for that humanitarian
Aid to cross the border from
Egypt they are ready and
waiting a percentage of these Aid trucks
is supposed to be allowed through the
Rafa crossing the only Crossing into
Gaza not controlled by
Israel 20 in all Aid trucks for
Gaza there 2 and a half million people
that need assistance 20 trucks is a drop
in the ocean of need right now in
Gaza on the other side of the Raa
Crossing there is Mayhem and
despair even if Southern Gaza is where
Israel told Northern gazans to go for
safety's sake heavy air strikes in conun
in the South meant the overflowing nasar
Hospital took in even more wounded for
critical care there's no safety there's
nowhere safe in gasa you have to be
ready to die and to just stay in your
house when there is a threat originating
or being conducted against Israel from
the south and we will strike absolutely
Israel's Army will soon move into the
Gaza Strip Israel's defense minister
told the troops massing on its
border I promise you that whoever sees
Gaza now from afar will see it from the
inside good luck and Israel ground
operation will likely focus at first on
the North with Hamas expected to put up
Fierce resistance all of that pushing
even more gazen Southward in need of
food water medical
supplies
and back on the other side of the Rafa
Crossing aid supplies stream into a
nearby airport destined to join the
backup waiting to get into Southern
Gaza for more we can now speak to Frank
ledwich he's a senior lecturer in
strategic studies at Portsmouth
University and a former UK Military
Intelligence officer he joins us from
Oxford Tonight Frank good to see you
again now since October 7th the Israeli
Army has killed several members of Hamas
top commanding brass how much of a blow
is that for the terror
group yes Nicole good evening they
killed about six or seven major leaders
and operationally I suspect it won't
have decisive effect because leaders are
always replaceable and we found that
ourselves while dealing with the Taliban
and indeed the Islamic State no one's
Irreplaceable however I think down at
the Tactical level the combat level what
will be happening is people be asking
who can I trust the Israelis seem to be
getting some pretty Senior People how
are they finding them is it through
traitors is it through Tech is it
through intercepts So to that extent it'
be sewing Discord and uh and cutting
away at morale I think but Hamas has
been quite open about their commanders
getting killed why is that because as
you said they presumably risk looking
weak it's part of combat They will
announce their losses uh with some pride
I suspect these become Martyrs and
heroes to their cause I don't think
that's I think that's fairly normal in
these
circumstances uh they they'll announce
them with
pride Hamas has released two hostages
today reportedly on humanitarian grounds
after qari mediation do you think this
is a oneoff or could we be seeing a
major breakthrough
here I don't think it's a oneoff this
would be a strategic negotiating tactic
on the one hand
and a propaganda uh a propaganda effort
on the other it's worth mentioning by
the way that uh under Islamic law it's
fairly settled that women and children
should never be harmed and preferably
should not be held as hostages so this
release can be used I suppose to
establish some kind of legitimacy but
but of course that's that's just
propaganda What's Happening Here is a
negotiating tactic and we'll see I think
several more of these releases to remind
the world of who they have and what can
happen if uh if their if their demands
aren't met yeah negotiating tactic to
what end because the timing here is
interesting isn't it could this be an
attempt at staving off Israel's
announced ground
offensive I don't think so and if it is
such an attempt it it's going to fail
the I I never I don't think many of us
expected the offensive to go off before
before now of course they're all the
political visits and so forth but in one
sense Israel has the upper hand it's got
the whip hand the longer it holds off
the longer it has time to build up its
picture of the battlefield to set up its
intelligence framework and its targeting
and uh there's nothing I think Hamas can
do to to delay
that let's talk about the ground
offensive that does seem imminent Hamas
is hiding in civilian infrastructure in
a sophisticated tunnel system while
holding all of these Israeli and
international hostages over 200 at this
point how does the IDF plan on going
about this
incursion there's a huge amount of
assistance they're getting they they
they have probably World leading
capabilities in hostage identification
location and rescue the idea will be to
get what what are called Triggers on on
and each each hostage there'll be
certain groups they will know where
certain groups are us intelligence the
huge us
intelligence um infrastructure is now
directed towards this as well and it's I
think it's in the open certainly is in
the open sources that US Special Forces
are on the spot to so the first problem
of course is to locate the hostages and
the second problem the more serious one
I think or even more serious is to get
people in and get them out and those
efforts will start if they haven't
started already very soon and we will
see results but sadly it's I think In
fairness uh it's a it's a long stretch
to hope that they will all get out but
all the efforts of Israeli formidable uh
Israeli intelligence system plus the US
and I suspect the UK Germany France and
others are focused on this problem now
and that's a pretty formidable array
yeah both Hamas and Israel have not been
oblivious to what's been happening in
Ukraine in the past year and a half how
could that influence the current
conflict between
them considerably both sides have been
watching particularly the uh
developments in well in two in two two
elements first in the air the Drone war
will be very intense in in in in in Gaza
I suspect uh Israeli soldiers as so
before will have to look up they'll be
looking up and uh uh watching for strike
drones suicide drones and of course for
for surveillance the Israelis will be
using uh drones and indeed Ai and uh AI
directed drones as you see or beginning
to see actually in Ukraine as well so
there's that aspect too uh Precision uh
artillery very
important we haven't seen too much of
that yet but we will so far we've seen
AA air take the uh take the lead in
Precision strike but artillery will be a
major factor but of course there are
elements in in Gaza are totally
different not least the uh the nature of
the battle it's totally Urban and of
course the tunnel systems and the fact
that Hamas knows the ground so much
better than the IDF how big of a
complicating Factor could that
be pretty pretty considerable the IDF of
course has has mapped every Square
centimeter of Gaza over the last 20
years and we'll in in theory know it
well but you're quite right that that
intimate local knowledge is very
important is it decisive no there is
another aspect I think which isn't is
which is rather unpalatable but it's
nonetheless significant Israel soldiers
want to survive Hamas uh terrorists are
are not interested one way the other and
therefore there's that human element
which will undoubtedly work to the
detriment of many people or the
increased casualties and finally of
course Hamas have that weapon of uh of
the many thousands of human Shields that
they are holding not just the hostages
but their own people and the political
effect uh engendered by their their
their their killing yeah and I mean the
world has been watching uh in in horror
really um to the the deteriorating
situation of innocent civilians in Gaza
and that is even before this ground
offensive has even started how can Hamas
I guess as well as the IDF go about
accomplishing their goals while
respecting International humanitarian
law which both Waring parties are
obligated to abide
by well they may be obligated to abide
by it as indeed they are only one side's
making the slightest effort to do so we
have to draw that bright white line
between deliberate killing and
inadvertent uh inadvertent killing uh
look IDF commanders understand fully the
effect of of of the destruction of human
life in a situation like this and when
people do die you can be sure that
whether there's Compassion or not
Israeli commanders are are wishing it
didn't because they understand the
political effect more widely of this and
the effect it might have on
International particularly locally when
I say locally I mean in the region of
course from Hamas side the more of their
own people that killed from that
perspective the better and in one sense
Israel's walking into a trap it has no
choice there's no no no alternative I
think for Israel to do this but uh this
this is this is the situation Hamas
wanted and it's a situation into which
Israelis troops are going to have to to
assault Frank let witch thank you so
much always great speaking to
you thank you
Nicole well Julet tumar is director of
communications at the UN Agency for
Palestinian refugees and she joins us
from the Jordanian Capital Aman welcome
to DW when do you expect the Rafa border
crossing from Egypt to
open I don't know actually I really do
not know what we do know is that people
are in dire need and uh they need
humanitarian assistance and supplies
needs to need to reach them as soon as
possible and The Siege on the Gaza Strip
must be lifted unra and other
humanitarian agencies have not been able
to deliver any humanitarian supplies to
people in Gaza in the past two weeks
alone what do you what do you understand
the hold up to
be I I really do not have those details
what I do know is that the situation on
the ground for people in Gaza including
half a million who shelter in anra
schools and other facilities is
absolutely Terri
and this is largely duee to the lack of
supplies uh that have been running out
for the agency I work with under what
can 20 lur loads of Aid achieve in a
situation that used to require 100 a
day it's a drop in the ocean this is
exactly why the UN and Andra included
are calling for sustainable humanitarian
access and regular humanitarian access
so that Aid flows into the Gaza Strip
for people in need among them women
children old people flows on a regular
basis the situation in Gaza was
described as catastrophic even before
this war broke out is there a difference
in the aid that you need to get in now
now that there are bombs and missiles to
before or is it just more of everything
that is
needed
yeah two million people who live in the
Gaza Strip that's uh that's like the
population similar to to Brussels as one
example imagine if the whole of Brussels
is in need of humanitarian Assistance or
have been impacted in one shape or
another by a war so we need a lot of
supplies because people are in need of
supplies and they're running out of
water that's the most critical part this
is why we're asking for fuel because
fuel is absolutely critical for the
pumping station so that tabs in people's
homes can start running with clean water
so what's on those lores waiting to get
in besides uh Fuel and uh food what else
are you trying to get in
there uh water Food Supplies that are
essential like cleaning supplies um
yeah the part of the the deal that that
appears to be being struck between Egypt
and Israel about this this G this uh
this uh Crossing into Gaza is that
someone will have to guarantee that um
Aid does not get to Hamas it only gets
to the Palestinian people will that will
that that policing involve uh people uh
from the UN or will that be done uh by
the someone from uh Israel or or indeed
Egypt ra has been on the ground in the
Gaza Strip for seven decades now we have
been giving supplies and assistance
including development assistance like
schooling um for people for many many
years now we have very strict scrutiny
systems in place our own staff 13,000 of
them they get screened so we know where
the assistance goes and it goes to
people who need it most thank you for
joining us Juliet tumar director of
communications at the UN Agency for
Palestinian
refugees thanks so much Israel is
planning to evacuate the city of kirat
Mona following days of clashes with
Hezbollah Fighters along the border with
Lebanon the city is home to 20,000
people and is just 2 kilometers from the
border Israeli authorities have been
steadily evacuating communities along
the northern
Frontier and Ido Goldstein have driven
up to kot Shimona to pick up their
father
they're taking him South an out of range
of rockets fired across the border by
Hezbollah my father is live here in K we
take him take take take her to my home
and uh try
survive and this is why they're leaving
siren's whale as a barrage of rockets
streaks towards Israel from
Lebanon
kiat Shimona has already been hit by
those
Munitions the Army says it's time to
go this kind of evacuation allows the
IDF to expand its operational freedom to
act against the Hezbollah
terrorists many residents have in fact
already left before the enforced
evacuation but they're confident they'll
return actually the situation in Israel
right now is very difficult like my
brother say but you know what we're
going to win no one can beat us that's
it no one is can beat us this is what
all over the world need to understand
we're going to fight and fight out
residents fleeing the north are now
joining tens of thousands of Israelis
who have left their homes in the South
near
Gaza